[GR-42598] Native Executable JFR Demo. (#154)
graalvm/graalvm-demos: native-jfr-demo/README.md

# Recording JFR events with Native Image

> This example demonstrates how to use the JDK Flight Recorder (JFR) as a tool to collect diagnostic and profiling data in a running Java application, built into a JVM. 

Reviewer: This example shows how to create a custom JFR event and use that in a native executable. Maybe we could start this guide with an example that shows what standard JFR events are emitted by, for example, `jwebserver`? What do you think?

# Native Executables with JFR Example

> This example demonstrates how JDK Flight Recorder (JFR) as a tool for collecting diagnostic and profiling data running Java application, built into a JVM. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to use the JDK Flight Recorder (JFR) as a tool to collect diagnostic and profiling data in a running Java application, built into a JVM. 
```

> GraalVM Native Image supports JFR events and users can use [`jdk.jfr.Event`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Event.html) API with a similar experience to using JFR in the Java HotSpot VM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraalVM Native Image supports JFR events and users can use the [`jdk.jfr.Event`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Event.html) API with a similar experience to using JFR in the Java HotSpot VM.
```

> To record JFR events when running a native executable, JFR support and JFR recording must be enabled, and this guide covers how to do that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To record JFR events when running a native executable, enable JFR support and JFR recording as described in this guide.
```

> > Note: JFR events recording is not supported on GraalVM JDK for Windows. JFR is only supported with native executables built on GraalVM JDK 11.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: JFR event recording is not supported on GraalVM JDK for Windows. JFR is only supported with native executables built on GraalVM JDK 11.
```
I'm not sure I understand what this means.
Is JFR with GraalVM JDK11 supported on Windows?

## Preparation

> 1. [Download GraalVM](https://www.graalvm.org/downloads/), unzip the archive, set the GraalVM home directory as the `$JAVA_HOME` environment variable and add `$JAVA_HOME/bin` to the `PATH` environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Download GraalVM](https://www.graalvm.org/downloads/), unzip the archive, set the `$JAVA_HOME` environment variable as your GraalVM home directory  and add `$JAVA_HOME/bin` to your `PATH` environment variable.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Neither of these might be true. For example, I would expect many users to install GraalVM in a non-user location.

Reviewer 2: I don't think these lines (14-22) are required. We can assume the reader understands the instructions without further details.

    On Linux:
    ```bash
    export JAVA_HOME=/home/${current_user}/path/to/graalvm
    export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    ```
    On macOS:
    ```bash
    export JAVA_HOME=/Users/${current_user}/path/to/graalvm/Contents/Home
    export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    ```

2. Install [Native Image](https://www.graalvm.org/dev/reference-manual/native-image/#install-native-image) and VisualVM by running:
    ```bash
    gu install native-image jvisualvm
    ``` 

3. Download or clone the demos repository:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-demos
    ```

## Build and Run Native Executables with JFR

> 1. Change directory to the demo subdirectories: _native-jfr-demo_:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Change directory to the demo subdirectory: _native-jfr-demo_:
```

    ```
    cd graalvm-demos/native-jfr-demo
    ```

> 2. Compile the Java file on GraalVM JDK:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Compile the Java file using the GraalVM JDK:
```

    ```bash
    javac JFRDemo.java
    ```
    It creates two class files: _JFRDemo$HelloWorldEvent.class_ and _JFRDemo.class_.

> 3. Build a native executable with the VM inspection enabled:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Build a native executable with VM inspection enabled:
```

    ```bash
    native-image --enable-monitoring=jfr JFRDemo
    ```
    The `--enable-monitoring=jfr` option enables features such as JFR that can be used to inspect the VM.

4. Run the executable and start recording:
    ```bash
    ./jfrdemo -XX:+FlightRecorder -XX:StartFlightRecording="filename=recording.jfr"
    ```

>     It runs the application as a native executable. The `-XX:StartFlightRecording` option enables the built-in Flight Recorder and starts recording to a specified binary file, _recording.jfr_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This command runs the application as a native executable. The `-XX:StartFlightRecording` option enables the built-in Flight Recorder and starts recording to a specified binary file, _recording.jfr_.
```

GraalVM Native Image supports JFR events and users can use the [`jdk.jfr.Event`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Event.html) API with a similar experience to using JFR in the Java HotSpot VM.

To record JFR events when running a native executable, enable JFR support and JFR recording as described in this guide.

> Note: JFR event recording is not supported on GraalVM JDK for Windows. JFR is only supported with native executables built on GraalVM JDK 11.

## Preparation

1. [Download GraalVM](https://www.graalvm.org/downloads/), unzip the archive, set the `$JAVA_HOME` environment variable as your GraalVM home directory  and add `$JAVA_HOME/bin` to your `PATH` environment variable.

    On Linux:
    ```bash
    export JAVA_HOME=/home/${current_user}/path/to/graalvm
    export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    ```
    On macOS:
    ```bash
    export JAVA_HOME=/Users/${current_user}/path/to/graalvm/Contents/Home
    export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    ```

2. Install [Native Image](https://www.graalvm.org/dev/reference-manual/native-image/#install-native-image) and VisualVM by running:
    ```bash
    gu install native-image jvisualvm
    ``` 

> 3. Download or clone the demos repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Download the demos repository or clone it as follows:
```

4. Run the executable and start recording:
    ```bash
    ./jfrdemo -XX:+FlightRecorder -XX:StartFlightRecording="filename=recording.jfr"
    ```
    It runs the application as a native executable. The `-XX:StartFlightRecording` option enables the built-in Flight Recorder and starts recording to a specified binary file, _recording.jfr_.

5. Start [VisualVM](https://visualvm.github.io/) to view the contents of the recording file in a user-friendly way. GraalVM provides VisualVM in the core installation. To start the tool, run:
    ```bash 
    jvisualvm
    ```

6. Go to **File**, then **Add JFR Snapshot**, browse _recording.jfr_, and open       the selected file. Confirm the display name and click **OK**. Once opened, there is a bunch of options you can check: Monitoring, Threads, Exceptions, etc., but you should be mostly interested in the events browsing. It will look something like this:
    
    ![JDK Flight Recorder](img/jfr.png)

    Alternatively, you can view the contents of the recording file in the console window by running this command:
    ```shell
   jfr print recording.jfr
    ```

>     It prints all events recorded by Flight Recorder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It prints all the events recorded by Flight Recorder.
```

# Recording JFR events with Native Image

> This demo shows how to create a custom JDK Flight Recorder (JFR) event and use that in a native executable.
> JFR is a tool to collect diagnostic and profiling data in a running Java application, built into a JVM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo shows how to create a custom JDK Flight Recorder (JFR) event and use it in a native executable.
JFR is a tool to collect diagnostic and profiling data in a running Java application, and built into the JVM. 
```

> GraalVM Native Image supports JFR events and users can use the [`jdk.jfr.Event`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Event.html) API with a similar experience to using JFR in the JVM. For example, to emit standard JFR events for the `jwebserver` application, you would run:

Reviewer: We no longer support JDK11:
```suggestion
GraalVM Native Image supports JFR events and users can use the [`jdk.jfr.Event`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Event.html) API with a similar experience to using JFR in the JVM. For example, to emit standard JFR events for the `jwebserver` application, you would run:
```

## Preparation

1. Download and  install the latest GraalVM JDK with Native Image using [GraalVM JDK Dowloader](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-jdk-downloader):
    ```bash
    bash <(curl -sL https://get.graalvm.org/jdk) -c 'native-image,visualvm'
    ```

2. Install VisualVM by running:
    ```bash
    gu install visualvm
    ``` 

3. Download the demos repository or clone it as follows:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-demos
    ```

## Build and Run Native Executables with JFR

1. Change directory to the demo subdirectory: _native-jfr-demo_:
    ```
    cd graalvm-demos/native-jfr-demo
    ```
2. Compile the Java file using the GraalVM JDK:
    ```bash
    $JAVA_HOME/bin/javac JFRDemo.java
    ```
    It creates two class files: _JFRDemo$HelloWorldEvent.class_ and _JFRDemo.class_.

3. Build a native executable with VM inspection enabled:
    ```bash
    $JAVA_HOME/bin/native-image --enable-monitoring=jfr JFRDemo
    ```
    The `--enable-monitoring=jfr` option enables features such as JFR that can be used to inspect the VM.

4. Run the executable and start recording:
    ```bash

>     ./jfrdemo -XX:StartFlightRecording="filename=recording.jfr"

Reviewer: You left `-XX:+FlightRecorder` in the `jwebserver` example, so let's use it consistently (it's not needed but also doesn't harm):
```suggestion
    ./jfrdemo -XX:+FlightRecorder -XX:StartFlightRecording="filename=recording.jfr"
```

    ```

>     This command runs the application as a native executable. The `-XX:StartFlightRecording` option enables the built-in Flight Recorder and starts recording to a specified binary file, _recording.jfr_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This command runs the application as a native executable. The `-XX:+FlightRecorder` and `-XX:StartFlightRecording` options enable the built-in Flight Recorder and start recording to a specified binary file, _recording.jfr_.
```
